README.md, before:

Find SV core module
Run

To analyse one bam file and put the output in the output_folder type:

python FindSV.py --bam file.bam --output output_folder

To analyse a fodler containing bam files type:

python FindSV.py --folder input_folder --output output_folder

or skip the --output flag to put the output in the directory given py the config file.

Installation
non-uppmax system:
prerequisites

    FindTranslocations

    CNVnator

    samtools

    genmod

    vep

these softwares needs to be installed and their path must be added to the config file
Depending on how the root system was installed the path of the oot folder may need to be added as well

UPPMAX system:
by setting the uppmax flag in the config file to anthing except "", the uppmax settings and modules will be used. Then the following tools must be installed:
  
    FindTranslocations
    genmod

their paths need to be added to the config file

Reference_dir
The path to the reference directory is set using the reference_dir flag. There reference needs to be split per chromosome.

Other settings

general:
TMPDIR: path to the directory used as scratch drive(not implemented yet)

account: the slurm account

output: optional defult output folder


calling:

  FindTranslocation:
  
    minimum supporting pairs: the minimum number o pairs to call a variant.
    
    
  CNVnator
  
    bin size: the base pair sie of each bin used to search for CNVs


annotation:

  internal frequency DB
  
    the minimum overlap to count a variant as a hit in the DB
    
  Genmod
  
    rank model path
    
      the path to the genmod rankmodel
      
  VEP
  
    cache_dir
    
      the same as the vep --dir option; this option is required on uppmax

Commit message:

modified:   CONDA/create_conda_env.sh 	modified:   FindSV.py 	modified:   FindSV_modules.py 	modified:   README.md 	modified:   config.txt

README.md, after:

Find SV core module
Run

To analyse one bam file and put the output in the output_folder type:

python FindSV.py --bam file.bam --output output_folder

To analyse a fodler containing bam files type:

python FindSV.py --folder input_folder --output output_folder

or skip the --output flag to put the output in the directory given py the config file.

Installation
Conda install
prerequisites
    Conda

    FindTranslocations

    CNVnator
    
add the path to FindTranslocations and CNVnator to the config file, also set the conda flag in the config file to anthing except "" for each tool where you want to use the conda environment.
thereafter, cd to the CONDA folder and run the create_conda_env.sh script. This script will create the conda environment for genmod, samtools as well as vep. 
    
non-uppmax system, no conda:
prerequisites

    FindTranslocations

    CNVnator

    samtools

    genmod

    vep

these softwares needs to be installed and their path must be added to the config file
Depending on how the root system was installed the path of the root folder may need to be added as well

UPPMAX system:
by setting the uppmax flag in the config file to anthing except "", the uppmax settings and modules will be used. Then the following tools must be installed:
  
    FindTranslocations
    genmod

their paths need to be added to the config file, genmod may be installed and used through the conda environment by following the steps described in the conda install section

Reference_dir
The path to the reference directory is set using the reference_dir flag. There reference needs to be split per chromosome.

Other settings

general:
TMPDIR: path to the directory used as scratch drive(not implemented yet)

account: the slurm account

output: optional defult output folder


calling:

  FindTranslocation:
  
    minimum supporting pairs: the minimum number o pairs to call a variant.
    
    
  CNVnator
  
    bin size: the base pair sie of each bin used to search for CNVs


annotation:

  internal frequency DB
  
    the minimum overlap to count a variant as a hit in the DB
    
  Genmod
  
    rank model path
    
      the path to the genmod rankmodel
      
  VEP
  
    cache_dir
    
      the same as the vep --dir option; this option is required on uppmax
